>> Bianca: The typical recipe for
recursion is
to identify your base case which is,
when do you want your loop to stop?
So if you're doing a for loop and you say,
four of r i equals i less
than a rate at length.
Your base case is i is less
than a rate at length,
when do you want that loop to stop?
Or you want it to stop when it's
greater than, but you know what I mean,
that's the condition of the loop and
that's your base case.
What is your recursive case?
So the recursive case is the work
that you wanna do, right?
So we're not just looping for
no reason, there's some work that
we need to do for each loop.
So maybe we're adding some numbers, maybe
we're doing some other sort of operations.
So we need to identify that recursive
case, and we need to make sure that
each time we call our recursion,
we're getting closer to our base case.
Because otherwise, we never meet our
base case, we're gonna loop forever.
And we get into this infinite loop and
it crashes your browser.
Nice thing about repl.it is that
it stops the infinite loop so
it doesn't actually crash your browser.
And it will warn you that you have
an infinite loop, which is super nice.
Cuz otherwise if you're playing around
with this stuff, you'll have to close and
open your browser when you mess up.
And you always mess up the first time.
So the other thing is you need to make
sure that you're returning where it's
appropriate, cuz you can lose your data,
as we mentioned.
And again, write a procedure that's gonna
bring your input closer to your base case.
And so this sounds all fine and dandy, but
applying this to a real problem can be
a little bit tricky.
>> Bianca: All right,
so let's look at our fancy loop.
Or this is just, yeah,
this is our recursive loop.
So let's check it out and play our game.
>> Bianca: So
like I mentioned,
recursion is just fancy loops,
and most of the time I would
suggest just using a loop.
However, as you grow with your
algorithms and data structures,
there's gonna be times
when it's actually way
harder to write a solution
iteratively over recursively.
So it's good to get familiar with
the simple cases until you get to
a point where, okay,
then it's really needed, and
we're applying it to something
a little more advanced.
Okay, so we're gonna pass 3.
All right, so we're gonna push this on
to our call stack, emulating how our
JavaScript actually would be executing,
and we're creating our scope here.
Every time we push something
onto a call stack,
we're creating an execution context.
All the variables that live inside of that
function have their own little world and
you can't, like this when we call again,
can't really interact.
This parent can't interact with the child,
but
the child can interact with
the parent in terms of scope.
You can reach up, but you can't reach in.
So I'm getting ahead of myself.
So we're passing 3 in as 3.
So this will just console.log that
n equals 3 for your reference.
So if our n is less than or equal to 1,
our loop is complete, right?
This is similar to where you say
i is greater than area.length.
So is it less than 1?
No, okay, fine, we're gonna have to call
it again and we're gonna decrement n.
This is the important part.
We need to decrement, otherwise that
infinite loop case is what's gonna happen.
So now n is 2, it's not less than 1,
okay, let's do it again.
And then usually I like to,
in these examples it doesn't
really matter where we leave off.
But sometimes there'll be more work
that needs to be done after we call
a recursion, so
it's good to keep track of where you were.
When you have to go back and do more work.
Okay, so now this is 1, is it 1, great.
Now we're gonna return complete.
Again, we never get down here cuz we hit
this case, and once we see that return,
that means we're gonna exit this function,
pop it off the stack.
Whatever this returns is
what this is returning, so
this is gonna return complete.
>> Bianca: And let's pop it off the stack.
So since there's a return statement,
we will return again.
The value complete, pop this guy off
the stack.
>> Bianca: And
then pop this guy off the stack.
>> Bianca: So
that's our loop with recursion.
And through this workshop in this
particular section, I want you to get
really familiar with translating loops
into recursion and recursion into loops.
That's the goal, because loops are easier
to reason about, recursion is just a loop.
How we do put those two things together?
That's what we're doing.